---
layout: post
title: "Windleblo"
date: 2010-06-01T12:00:00-07:00
author: Jack
categories: [uncategorized]
original_url: https://windleblo.blogspot.com/2010/06/success-weve-been-to-fredrikstad-and-we.html
---

Success! We've been to Fredrikstad and we have prevailed. Our initial Leg 1 destination is Fredrikstad, Norway, the first large port town over the Norwegian border. You might ask, "Why the detour? Norway is not on the way to the Baltic Sea?" Well, devoted followers will recall from reading last season's blog that avoiding the VAT tax is a preoccupation of all non-EU European cruisers. The steep VAT tax -- 25 percent of your boat's sale price -- is charged on any boat that is kept in the European Union more than 18 months. The rules are such that one must only leave the EU for a day in order to restart the 18 month clock and avoid the tax. So all non-EU boat owners cruising Europe long-term structure their itinerary to make a stop in a non-EU country at least once every 18 months. Fortunately, Norway is not a member of the European Union and is only 60 nautical miles from Ellos. So, in going to Ferdrikstad, we had two missions. First, we needed to clear Norwegian Customs. Second, we needed to sort out our Internet access issues. We left Ellos around 10:00 on Memorial Day after some business with Vickie Vance of HR-Parts. Ten mostly motoring hours later under warm, cloudless skies with listless winds we arrived in Fredrikstad. The visit to the Customs House was routine, with no drama other than a long wait. One always sweats a bit in these situations as the Customs officials have the power to make life miserable even if only by erecting bureaucratic hurdles. But in this case, I emerged from the office quickly with Norwegian Customs stamps on all the necessary papers, which will be kept carefully as proof of being out of the EU in the event of any future tax inquiries. Next, I trucked over to the Fredrikstad mall where we had purchased a Telenor USB modem last year. Followers will likely also recall another cruiser preoccupation -- maintaining reliable access to weather data at all times. In this part of the world, the best way to get weather information is via the Internet. At the end of last year, we tried, successfully we thought, to unlock the modem so it could be used outside Norway. We left Scandinavia before we had a chance to test it. Last week, I went to a Telia store (the AT&T; of Sweden) in Gothenburg shortly after arriving here to try it out. When the Telia salespeson put a Telia SIM card in the Telenor modem and plugged it into my laptop, it did not work. The salesperson told me I needed to talk to Telenor to fix the problem. Well, while in Fredrikstad, I visited the very same SpaceWorld store (kinda like a Best Buy only smaller) where we purchased the modem last year. Lo and behold, the very same salesperson was there and, in typical Norwegian fashion, was only too happy to help me. He spent an hour downloading all the latest drivers to get the modem updated. He called Telenor and was told that indeed the modem was unlocked and should work with the new drivers. I will once again test this claim as soon as possible back in Sweden. Cross your fingers. We left Fredrikstad around 2 p.m. after topping off with cheap (relatively) Norwegian diesel. We are now moored in a cove on the remote island of Tisler, just north of the Swedish-Norwegian border. We will get under way again early tomorrow for the sail back to Ellos to tackle the remaining early season issues.