---
layout: post
title: "Windleblo"
date: 2010-07-02T12:00:00-07:00
author: Jack
categories: [uncategorized]
original_url: https://windleblo.blogspot.com/2010/07/our-passage-across-gulf-of-finland.html
---

Our passage across the Gulf of Finland couldn't have been smoother, running the gennaker on a beam reach for 40 miles with winds building from eight to 15 knots. We sailed along at a steady seven knots and arrived at Jotiko-Marine around 4 p.m. Wednesday afternoon. There, owner Jussi Mattila welcomed us to Finland with open arms. He graciously invited us to leave our boat on his private dock for the week while we traveled to Russia, which was a great relief as we had no certainty of a berth elsewhere. Without delay, he repaired our broken whisker pole with parts supplied by Vickie Vance and Windleblo was all better. Though quite spartan (more a working boatyard than a guest harbor), he offered his private sauna for our use. We quickly took him up on the offer. Wednesday night, I got my first good night's sleep in a long time now that the 1,130 mile delivery from Ellos was complete. We can now slow down and relax. We took the city bus into Helsinki Thursday morning for a walking tour of the town. The central district bustled with natives and tourists alike, all seemingly speaking in different tongues. We strolled the Esplanade and open air market on the harbor and browsed a large bookstore in a building built by the famous Finnish architect Alvar Aalto. We stopped for coffee at a café near the harbor, and then toured two Helsinki landmarks - the Lutheran Cathedral and the Uspenski Cathedral. Around four, we thought about heading back to the boat but walked to the university section of town for a beer before hopping on the metro for five stops and a short walk back to the boat. Along the way, we learned some trivia about Helsinki: Founded in 1550 Capital of Finland since 1812 Population: 577,000 Population of Greater Helsinki: 1.3 million Finnish speakers: 84.3% Swedish speakers: 6.1% Other language groups: 9.6% Foreign nationals: 6.7% Evangelical Lutherans: 67% Orthodox: 2% Total area: 716 square kilometers Universities: 7 Average temperatures: Yearly: 46 degrees Fahrenheit Warmest month: July, 64 degrees Fahrenheit Coldest month: March, 33 degrees Farhenheit Friday, Emily and Jocelyn took a layover day while I bicycled to the central train station to check our St. Petersburg tickets with Finnish Railways. After a few baubles (e.g., our booking agent had not entered our passport numbers), we were all set to go. Tomorrow we leave on the Sebilius train to St. Petersburg, Russia. The adventure continues. Postlude: Here's what Jocelyn said while sailing off Kalinigrad, Russia, "I can see Russia from my boat. I guess that qualifies me as GOP presidential running mate."