---
layout: post
title: "Windleblo"
date: 2010-06-29T12:00:00-07:00
author: Jack
categories: [uncategorized]
original_url: https://windleblo.blogspot.com/2010/06/occasionally-when-i-do-right-by-jocelyn.html
---

Occasionally when I do right by Jocelyn, I get cocky and cite the Tom Petty lyric, "You got lucky, babe, when I found you." Well, today, one day after our 25th wedding anniversary, I must admit that I am the lucky one. Jocelyn and I will always remember Tallinn, Estonia, as the place where we celebrated our 25th wedding anniversary. We had two busy days in Tallinn leading up to our celebration dinner. Both on foot and by bicycle, we toured the cobblestoned streets of the old city, shopped the malls downtown, and took in Peter the Great's Estonian palace en route to Pirita Beach a few miles northeast of town. Along the way, we learned about Tallinn's hanseatic past, current pulse, and future direction. You can learn about Tallinn through this [link](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tallinn). Late each afternoon, we enjoyed sauna in the immaculate new facilities at the Old City Marina where Windleblo is berthed. This is the second marina in a row where we have found sauna accompanying shower facilities, a sure sign Finland is not far off. Thanks go to our British friend, Chris Adams, who forwarded an email from the UK Cruising Association about the Old City Marina, which is in the heart of the city. We would not have found it otherwise, as neither of our cruising guides includes it. Our romantic evening began by listening to the Taj Mahal recording of "Further On Down the Road (You Will Accompany Me)." A month or so ago, I had heard this love song once more and couldn't get the lyrics out of my head. They seemed the perfect message for our anniversary, especially the lines, "When I think back, your love was like the sun. And I don't remember the cold days, darling, just the warm, warm ones." After playing it, Jocelyn said she thought it would make a good Bottom Feeder song. We walked to Old Town and had a drink at one of the outdoor cafés in the central square. There must have been a dozen separate restaurants with outdoor seating. Everywhere, people were basking in the warm late day sunshine, eating, drinking, and listening to music. A few establishments featured televisions under awnings with World Cup soccer. After a bit, we moved inside for dinner. We had selected an interesting restaurant that boasted authentic Estonian food. The proprietor, Liisu, is a lithe, blonde beauty in her mid-twenties. She recently started the restaurant with the support of her extended family, who all work there. Her flier welcomes you to the place "where Liisu and her sisters and brothers offer you Estonian food and drinks as they have learned it from Grandmother." Liisu showed us to our table, which she had adorned with a beautiful floral arrangement in our honor. (I had made a reservation the day before, telling her about our special occasion.) We ordered a selection of Estonia cheeses as an appetizer and roast pork with potatoes, sauerkraut, and pickles for two as our main course. Over dessert, I presented Jocelyn with my anniversary gift - a matching necklace and earrings with diamonds and amethyst set in sterling silver. The silver represents our 25th wedding anniversary, the amethyst is her birthstone, and the diamonds…well, a girl's best friend, right? She seemed very pleased as she put them on. Then, I was floored by her present to me - a love letter. By now you have noticed that Jocelyn rarely writes for the blog. She says words are not her strong suit, numbers are. (She's an accountant, after all.) But she made an exception for our anniversary. For it, she wrote the best love letter I have ever read. Here it is: "Dearest Jack, 25 years ago today, I stood before you and family and friends and said 'I do.' Over the years, I have thought about these simple words and their not so simple meaning. What do 'I do?' Why do 'I do?' How do 'I do?' The answers are complex and have taken the first 25 years of our married life to become apparent. The second 25 years and beyond will just continue to solidify and clarify their importance. What do 'I do?' I love you with all of my heart. You have proven to be the perfect husband for me. We have made an incredible life together; being a couple, raising a family, and maintaining our individuality. Why do 'I do?' Because I love you with all my heart. Every day, I need to remind myself that my life is real. I am in this amazing relationship with this loving and caring person. It has always been difficult for me to accept that I deserve you. How do 'I do?' I try every day to show you that I love you with all my heart. Know that my life is dedicated to making our relationship honest, trusting, and loving. Again I stand before you and family and friends and reconfirm our commitment to each other with those not so simple words… I do. Jocelyn XXXOOO" Our anniversary week began by placing a padlock on the lover's bridge in Klaipeda and tossing the keys in the water. It ended with the words of a love letter written by the most wonderful woman in the world. I guess now we know that Tom Petty's lyrics work both ways...I'm the one who got lucky when Jocelyn found me.