---
layout: post
title: "Windleblo"
date: 2010-06-24T12:00:00-07:00
author: Jack
categories: [uncategorized]
original_url: https://windleblo.blogspot.com/2010/06/tonight-is-our-last-night-in-lithuania.html
---

Tonight is our last night in Lithuania as the winds are finally heading our way. While we are anxious to resume our voyage, we have enjoyed our stay. Last night was the shortest of the year. Lithuanians mark the summer solstice with a country-wide celebration. In Klaipeda, people gathered for an all night festival in a former fort now converted into a park. Everywhere, young and old enjoyed themselves by eating, drinking, singing, and dancing as the shadows grew long. Musicans entertained from a stage above traditional dancers led by a lady caller in authentic Lithuanian dress. Nearby, a group of young women wove flower wreaths to adorn everyone's hair. We stayed long enough to observe several dances. A large haystack of logs was set for ignition at sunset, around 10:30 p.m. The bonfire and partying continued until sunrise five hours later. Only then, tradition has it, can everyone go home for sleep. We didn't last that long, opting to return to the boat around 11 p.m., catching a little World Cup at a pub along the way. Germany beat Ghana 1-0. Klaipeda has a more recent tradition, which we also honored. About two years ago a bridge over the Dane River was renovated. Since then, lovers attach padlocks inscribed with their vows to the bridge's intricate metalwork, dropping the keys into the river to seal their commitment to each other. With our 25th wedding anniversary less than a week away, Jocelyn and attached a padlock of our own. Inscribed on the lock were the words, "J&J; Forever, 06-29-10." After tossing the keys off the bridge, we held each other close and watched the ripples expand in the water below. Now, it's on to Latvia and Estonia where more discovery awaits.