---
layout: post
title: "Prelude"
date: 2010-05-19T12:00:00-07:00
author: Jack
categories: [uncategorized]
original_url: https://windleblo.blogspot.com/2010/05/prelude.html
---

Devoted followers will recall last year's finding that an "International Certificate of Competence" is required when cruising the Baltic States. And that said certificate is only awarded by the Royal Yacht Club and only to British subjects. However, the American Sailing Association offers the "International Proficiency Certificate" as an equivalent, which is awarded to ASA members who complete their Charter Cruising Course. Well, I am pleased to report that today I completed ASA 104, the Charter Cruising Course, and am now eligible for the International Proficiency Certificate. To do so, I enrolled in a three-day, two night training session aboard a 1979 36 ft. C&C; sloop with Bud Wagner, owner of Bud's Sailing School based in Allen's Harbor, Rhode Island. The itinerary for the private, one-on-one training took us from Bissell Cove on Narragansett Bay to Cuttyhunk Island, Massachusetts, where we anchored for the night. We then retraced our route as far as Newport, Rhode Island, where we anchored for the second night, before rounding Jamestown Island and returning to Bissell Cove. En route, all sorts of tall sea tales were exchanged, interspersed with lessons steeped in the required curriculum, including provisioning, rules of the road, engine care, international protocols, and more. Bud proved to be a knowledgeable, thoroughly delightful character, of the classic "Old New England Salt" sort. After completing the written exam -- taken in the"Dressing Room" of the Newport Public Library -- and scoring satisfactorily, Bud pronounced that I had passed the course, and we proceeded to the nearest Watering Hole. There, we engaged several of the local patrons, including Keith and Janna, whose image is captured in the accompanying slide show. Having said goodbye to Bud, I am now visiting Uncle Bill, Aunt Susan, Nephew Robi, and Niece Morgan who live in nearby Saunderstown, Rhode Island, before heading to Boston tomorrow to meet Jocelyn, Emily, and the rest of the extended family for John's Tufts graduation weekend. All as a prelude to this year's Windleblo adventure, which starts May 26th. Not long now....