---
layout: post
title: ""Ola!""
date: 2012-06-10T12:00:00-07:00
author: Jack
categories: [uncategorized]
original_url: https://windleblo.blogspot.com/2012/06/ola.html
---

Three hundred miles in, Coach started calling me Captain Sparrow. It started with a story. We had endured a tough night of headwinds and rough seas. On Day Two, the winds finally calmed and the seas flattened. We switched on the motor to keep pace. The conversation picked up. There was some sort of logical context that got him started, but I can't recall what it was. John Hoopes told us about how he once shared texts with a famous disc jockey named Diplo. "What was his name? Dick Blow?" Chris asked, not able to hear above the noise of the engine, wind, and waves. "No, Diplo, you moron. Diplo was his name," the two Johns and I replied, bursting with laughter. Without skipping a beat, John O'Riordan then began addressing Chris as "Dick." The first alias had been hatched. John O said the new name was only fitting for a man with a boat named "Swallow." Though this might seem a bit pejorative, the subtlety reflected the friendly teasing between the Irishman and the Englishman, which Dick gave as much as he took. Actually, the first nom de mer belonged to John O'Riordan. To distinguish one John from the other, we took to addressing John O'Riordan as "Trapper John," a name assigned to him earlier by a band of sailing mates with too many Johns among them. John sailed a Trapper 500 at the time, so he became Trapper John. Another John sailed a Moody sailboat. He became Moody John, and so forth. But the Trapper moniker didn't stick. Soon after Dick was born, John Hoopes started addressing Trapper John as "Uncle Bob" after the curious Irish phrase "Bob's Your Uncle." Neither John nor I had ever heard this colloquialism until our return to Ireland. Within days of landing, we had heard it several times, first from Hugh Gibson, _Windleblo 's_ winter guardian, and then from our Personal Survival Training course instructor, the one with the Deep Cork accent, who used it to describe the good fortune of finding one's way into a life raft (as discreet from still being in the sinking ship). We pieced together that "Bob's Your Uncle" is an expression akin to "The Bees Knees" or "All's Well That Ends Well" or "Happy Trails Are Here Again," and connotes goodness and righteousness. John O'Riordan by this time had unwittingly wormed his way into our hearts and minds as a trustworthy, good humored, extremely likable fellow, so the nickname stuck, for the moment.