---
layout: post
title: "Observations"
date: 2013-06-10T12:00:00-07:00
author: Jack
categories: [uncategorized]
original_url: https://windleblo.blogspot.com/2013/06/observations.html
---

A few observations, in no particular order. When we first got here, we found the Croats kinda terse and gruff, sometimes seeming just downright unfriendly. When you pull up to the dock the dockhands would act like you were imposing on them, even though you were their meal ticket. And cashiers at the grocery store seemed to treat you like you were an inconvenience as you were checking out your purchases, even though without you, the customer, they'd have no job. Slowly, though, I started not noticing this as much -- perhaps I'm getting used to it -- and the Croats seem generally to be a happy, industrious lot. For example, there are no slouches or beggars here. Everyone appears gainfully employed, even if only domestically. There are tons of other sailing yachts in these waters, but we haven't encountered many fellow cruisers, just a whole lot of charter people. And the charter boats typically have seven or eight Germans on them, make a lot of noise if you are near them, and aren't necessarily interested in connecting. Consequently, we haven't made many contacts with other sailors here. Encountering a fellow cruiser -- i.e., someone who owns their boat and is cruising longer than just a week or two -- is a rare occasion. When we do find other cruisers, we make a point of trying to connect with them, usually successfully, even if just for a brief chat. We've found the abundance of charter people and scarcity of cruisers elsewhere in the Med, but this problem seems particularly acute here. BTW, there are tons of sailing yachts here, mostly charters, but very few motor vessels. Other than a few motor megayachts, we have hardly seen any motor vessel cruisers. Which is just fine. We were surprised to read in the _Adriatic Times_  that the month of May was the coldest _on record_  for the Dalmatian Coast. Apparently, the sea temperature is ten degrees Celsius below normal for this time of year. The Croatian tourist board is beside itself as foreigners are canceling their bookings. We weren't sure what to make of the recent chilly mornings, but now realize things were not normal. We took it in stride, though, not missing the heat at all.